# AI-Generated Content Detection
Random forest classifier and TF-IDF analysis on text data. 

Generative AI has been actively researched since the 1960s, with the advent of the world’s first chatbot, ELIZA (White). The introduction of various consumer-targeted AI model services in the past couple of years has led to a meteoric rise in popularity of AI-generated text. The prevalence of AI-generated text and ease with which it is generated has allowed for a commodification of this technology, which has led to widespread adoption and even misuse. Content generated by AI is typically generated around relevancy, or how closely related the words are to a prompt. Using predictive machine learning algorithms, bodies of text will be classified as either human or AI-generated. In doing so, it will be determined whether it is possible to differentiate between AI-generated content and human-generated text.

While AI-generative technology has improved rapidly over the past decade, it is still in its infancy; therefore, it is reasonable to conclude that it is possible to differentiate AI-generated text from human-generated text. Some simple differences include the variability in the sentence structure and length. Human-generated text varies widely with the author’s writing style while AI-generated text is more cohesive stylistically. The random forest model trained using the TF-IDF data is a high-performing model. Even across various evaluation metrics, this model performs reliably and has few shortcomings. The random forest model trained on the sentence length data performs adequately, but the large amount of misidentified data and especially the amount of AI-text incorrectly labeled as human-generated calls into question the applicability of this model. 



## How to Run Code Locally
- Clone repo
- Download data from Kaggle [here](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/shanegerami/ai-vs-human-text/data) and save to local device's repository directory
- Go into repository on local device
- Run Python Code file using Jupyter Notebook server (such as Anaconda) or other preferred Python IDE


## Libraries Used
- pandas
- numpy
- matplotlib
- re
- warnings
- sklearn
- scipy
- string
- nltk


## Contact
Gillian Tatreau – gillie.tatreau97@gmail.com

Project Link: https://github.com/gilliantatreau/AI-Generated-Content-Detection
